title: offer negotiator agent
link: https://www.10xmanagement.com/agent-on-demand/
      https://interviewing.io/blog/sabotage-salary-negotiation-before-even-start
tag: offer, agent
status: none
summary:

handle recruiter calls: passive information gathering” mode
  Be polite and gracious to a fault.
   If it’s an offer call, thank them for the work they did to put your offer together and for advocating for you.
   If it’s earlier in the process, thank them for their help so far.

  Express genuine enthusiasm. 
   If it’s an early call, express excitement about the company or the interview process if there’s something idiosyncratically cool about it.
   If it’s an offer call, express excitement for the team, the projects, the hiring manager, whatever it is. And be genuine. Every offer will have something exciting about it.

 If the recruiter is making an offer, do not react to what you’re being told beyond expressing enthusiasm.
  Say that you need some time to process and/or talk to your {family, partner, spouse}.
  Why should you not react? Because recruiters do this a lot, and you don’t. Negotiating on the phone on the fly is really hard. You’re going to need time to think, 
  and you need a way to level the playing field. Email is the great leveler in these interactions because it’s asynchronous, and it gives you time to think and plan. 
  No one is realistically expecting you to react to major life decisions on the fly!

Use email (not phone when possible and DEFINITELY not texts) to interact with recruiters.
  You will have to get on the phone eventually, of course, but you never have to text – if they text you, 
  just wait a few hours to respond, and then respond over email (you can always say that you don’t have notifications enabled during work hours). 
  The casual nature of texting lulls you into a false sense of security. Moreover, the fact that texts interrupt you from something else puts you at a disadvantage
  — when you get interrupted, your instinct is to quickly respond to make the interruption go away.
  But knee-jerk responses are rarely the right ones, and you’ll find yourself giving away information you shouldn’t have.

If a recruiter asks you pointed questions about comp expectations or where else you’re interviewing, refer to the section called “Exactly what to say” right below!

Exactly what to say:
  end with the same sentence: I promise not to accept other offers until I have a chance to discuss them with you.

  For questions about comp expectations at the beginning of the process:
  At this point, I don’t feel equipped to throw out a number because I’d like to find out more about the opportunity first – right now, 
  I simply don’t have the data to be able to say something concrete. If you end up making me an offer, I would be more than happy to iterate on it if needed 
  and figure out something that works. I promise not to accept other offers until I have a chance to discuss them with you.

  For questions about comp expectations at the end of the process:
  It sounds like there’s an offer coming, and I’m really excited about it. I’m not sure exactly what number I’m looking for, but if you’d be able to share what 
  an offer package might look like, then I will gladly iterate on it with you if needed and figure out something that works. I promise not to accept other offers 
  until I have a chance to discuss them with you.

  For questions about where else you’re interviewing at the beginning of the process:
  I’m currently speaking with a few other companies and am at various stages with them. 
  I’ll let you know if I get to the point where I have an exploding offer, and I promise not to accept other offers until I have a chance to discuss them with you.

  For questions about where else you’re interviewing at the end of the process:
  I’m wrapping things up with a few companies and in process with a few more. 
  I promise to keep you in the loop, and I promise not to accept other offers until I have a chance to discuss them with you.

Conclusion
Negotiation isn’t about saying the right thing. It’s about laying a foundation: 
not revealing anything until you’re ready to negotiate, not negotiating too early, and making sure that you’ve set yourself up to have multiple offers.
Then, once those offers come in, you swoop in with sharp precision, negotiate once (possibly with just your top choice company), and be done with it.
